



 bhavābhavesu  nekesu
pūresi tiṃsapāramī
cariyāyoca sambuddho
pariccāgejahaṃsadā

 vessantarattabhāvamhi 
ṭhitomaddiṃ pisoadā
nijaṃkaṇhājinaṃjāliṃ
viyaṃvaṅkatapabbate

 tatocavitvātusite
pureuppajjipuññavā
rūpādidasaṭhānehi 
aññedeveatikkami

 cakkavāḷasahassehi
dasahāgammasabbaso
yācitodevabrahmūhi
buddhabhāvamanonato

 vilokanānisopañca 
viloketvāsirindharo
tatocavitvāmāyāya
uppajjisākiyekule

 visākhapuṇṇameseṭṭhe 
vijāyilumbinīvane
sīhanādaṃpanādento
sattapādaṃgatotadā

 virociṃsutadākāse 
tārocandadivākarā
ratanānicabhūmaṭṭhā
nānāpupphācapupphare

 sītāyanti avīcaggī 
khuppipāsācasohitā
lokantaremahāpabhā
andhāpassantitāvade

 aghaṭṭitāvāditāni 
tūriyānicaambare
madhurenapanādiṃsu
yasaṃsarenatāvade

 thutigītānigāyantā
devācakamalāsanā
sammodentāvaaṭṭhaṃsu 
buddhaṅkurassasantike

 kumārocārudhātīhi
tositārājamandire
vuddhosisusukhaṃkhemaṃ
sakyakaññānamantare

 soḷasavassikosakya 
nandanopitarāsatā
rājatteabhisittosi
modesituvanattaye

 nandanānaṃsovaṇṇa 
vaṇṇasobhaṃyasodharaṃ
sokāresimahesittaṃ
lokanettarasāyanaṃ

 ekūnatiṃsamevasse
visākhapuṇṇamevare
sahasenāyauyyāsi
yānenuyyānamaṇḍalaṃ

 nimittecaturodisvā 
puttassacavijāyanaṃ
sutvāubbiggacittena
naramitthapuretahiṃ

 paccāgammapuraṃtamhā 
pattopāsādamaṇḍalaṃ
nippajjidevarājāva
sayanesomahārahe

 sundarītaṃpurakkhitvā 
naccagītenatosayuṃ
evaṃpisonaramitvā
āhunikkhamamānaso

 pathamaṃrāhulaṃputtaṃ
passitvānikkhamāmahaṃ
iticintiyamāneso
agājāyānivesanaṃ

 thapetvāpādadummāre 
gīvamantopavesayaṃ
olokayaṃsapassittha
nippannaṃtaṃsamātaraṃ

 gaṇheyyaṃtaṃapanetvā 
bāhuṃcedeviyāahaṃ
nadadenikkhamokāsaṃ
pabujjhitvāyasodharā

 buddhapattovapasseyyaṃ
rāhulaṃiticintiya
kaṇḍakaṃāruhitvāna
tamhāchannenanikkhami

 dvārāsayāvivariṃsu 
devatādvāramaṇḍalaṃ
ratanukkāsahassāni
jālayiṃsumarūtahiṃ

 mānikkhamassusiddhattha
itotvaṃsattamedine
bhavissasecakkavattī 
itinīvāripāpimā

 tagghajānāmitaṃmāra
idhamātiṭṭhapakkama
itimāraṃ palāpetvā
vissaṭṭhosoabhikkami

 patvānomanadītīraṃ 
punāgamesituragaṃ
channañcanagaraṃ bimbā
devilāpaṭivedituṃ

 bandhitaṃyasodharāya
moḷiṃsugandhavāsitaṃ
chetvākhaggenatiṇhena
ukkhipitthatamambare

 aṭṭhaseṭṭhaparikkhāre 
dhāretvābrahmunābhate
hitvārājārahaṃdussaṃ
samaṇatthamupāgami

 karontodukkaraṃkammaṃ 
chabbassāniparakkamo
oḷārikannapānehi
dehaṃyāpesiṭhītiyā

 visākhapuṇṇamehema
pātiṃpāyasapūritaṃ
sujātāyābhataṃgayha
nerañcaramupāgami

 nerañcarāyatīramhi 
sutvāpāyāsamuttamaṃ
paṭiyatthavaramaggena
bodhimaṇḍamupāgami

 jayāsanepallaṅkamhi 
ṭhitodhiṭṭhesidhītimā
navīriyaṃjahissāmi
apattoitibuddhataṃ

 devindodhamayaṃsaṅkhaṃ 
setacchattaṃpitāmaho
dhārayaṃvādentovīṇaṃ
pañcasīkhoṭhitotahiṃ

 thutigītānigāyantī
aṭṭhāsuṃdevasundarī
gahetvāhemamañjūsā
surapupphehipūritā

 anatthamentesūriye 
mārasenaṃpalāpayī
aruṇuggamanekāle
pattosibuddhataṃvaraṃ

 paṭṭhānaṃsammasantassa
nāthassadehatosubhā
chabbaṇṇabhānicchadhanti 
vidhāvanti tahiṃ tahiṃ

 nīlānīlāpitāpītā
rattārattācanicchare
setāsetācamañciṭṭhā
tamhātamhāpabhassarā

 buddhapattopibodheyya 
dhammagambhīrataṃjino
nisāmetvānadesetuṃ
nirussāhamupāgato

 sahampatitadābrahmā 
desanāyābhiyācati
tenasopathamaṃseṭṭhaṃ
dhammacakkamadesayi

 ekavassovasambuddho 
varephagguṇapuṇṇame
sakyānaṃnagaraṃgañchī
sāvakehipurakkhato

 samāgamamhiñātīnaṃ
vassāpesisusītalaṃ
mahāmeghañcadesesi 
vessantarassajātakaṃ

 gantvāsāvakayugena
yasodharāyamandiraṃ
taṃtosetvānadesesi
candakinnarajātakaṃ

 vasitvāsattamevasse 
tāvatiṃse silāsane
abhidhammena tosesi
devabrahmagaṇaṃbahuṃ

 pattharaṃñāṇajālena
lokaṃlokesisabbadā
bodhetuṃbodhiyābhāya
bodheyyajanapaṅkajaṃ

 bodhaneyyaṃjanaṃdisvā 
cakkavāḷaparaṃparā
gantvāpivibodhesi
buddhaseṭṭhosubodhimā

 bakādikecabrahmāno
yakkhecāḷavakādike
purindadādikedeve
sūcilomādirakkhase

 jāṇusoṇādikeneke 
brāhmaṇecāvikakkhaḷe
cūḷodarādikenāge
dhanapālādikegaje

 buddhāmayaṃtimaññante
titthiyenekaladdhike
damesidamataṃseṭṭho
paravādappamaddano

 anubyañjanasampanno 
esabāttiṃsalakkhaṇo
byāmappabhāparikkhitto
ketumālāsilaṅkhato

 caturāsītisahassa 
dhammakkhandhesadesayi
pañcatāthīsavassāni
tilokassahitāyave

 buddhakiccaṃkarontoso
vahaṃlokahitaṃvaraṃ
mocayaṃbandhanāsatte 
kālaṃkhepetisabbadā

 yahiṃ āsītikonātho
nibbutovaramañjake
mahāsālavaneramme
mallānaṃnigametahiṃ

 aggikkhandhovalokasmiṃ 
jāletvānasasāvako
nibbāyitthasaṅkhatānaṃ
pakāsentoaniccataṃti
namotebhagavānātha 
namotejayataṃjaya
namotesirisampanna
namotelokanandana
